Name: Neil Malu
Computer Security - CS 419
Assignment 2

1.	To get access control matrices to scale better, the text states that the two main ways are “to compress the users and to compress the rights”.
	(a)	What is meant by “compressing the users”?
		Creating groups or roles to manage the priveleges of large sets of users simultaneously
	(b) What is meant by “compressing the rights”?
		Store the access control matrix either by columns(access control lists) or rows(capabilities, sometimes known as tickets)

2.	What four deficiencies does the author point out with Unix ACLs? Write your answers briefly: one short sentence per deficiency.
	
	The four deficiencies are
	(i)		The OS kernel runs as the supervisor and has unrestricted access to the whole machine, which means we cannot implement an audit trail file that the system administrator cannot modify.
	(ii)	ACL's contain only names of users and not programs so we cannot implement access triples of (user, program, file)
	(iii)	ACL's are not very good at expressing mutable state. Therefore managing stateful access rules is difficult and coult be hard to track down files of defunct users.
	(iv)	Unix ACL only names one user. Older versions allow a process to hold only one group id at a time and force it to use a privileged program to access other groups; newer Unix systems put a process in all groups that the user is in.

3.	How did Windows add support for capabilities via profiles?

	Security policy is set by groups rather than for the system as a whole. Groups are intended to be the primary method for centralized configuration management and control (group policy overrides individual profiles). 

4.	What is the purpose of the wheel group on BSD and macOS systems?

	The root account is disabled but users who may administer the system are in a group 'wheel' that allows them to 'su' into 'root' (superuser). This then enables them to install programs.

5.	(a) What is the simple security property of the Bell-LaPadula model? 
		The simple secrutiy property is that no process may read data at a higher level. This is called "No read up" or NRU.

	(b)	What is the *-property of the Bell-LaPadula model?
		The *-property is that no process may write data to a lower level. This is called the "No Write Down" or NWD

6.	What is meant by a role in a role-based access control (RBAC) system?

	A role can be thought of as a set of transactions that a user or set of users can perform
	within the context of an organization.

